the animation begins with train 112's
departure from tacoma station about two
and a half minutes before the collision
train 112 is being operated in the
automatic mode where the train responds
automatically to the speed commands from
the train control system at this time
train 214 is approaching Fort Totten and
is about eight tenths of a mile ahead of
train 112 train 214 is being operated in
the manual mode where the operator
controls the motion of the Train
according to the speed commands from the
train control system notice that the
speed command for train 112 varies with
the position of the train ahead its
actual speed lags behind the speed
command
you
at this point the system has brought the
speed command for train 112 to zero due
to the presence of train 214 ahead and
train 112 automatically begins to slow
to a stop
you
the lead train to 14 is on a faulty
track circuit
the speed command displays zero and the
operator of 214 begins to manually slow
the train to a stop because the train
control system cannot detect train 214
it responds as if the track ahead is
clear and transmits an errand speed
command of 55 miles per hour
train 112 automatically begins
accelerating to 55 miles per hour with
train to 14 stopped and undetected just
ahead
you
according to sight distance testing at
470 feet apart the operator of train 112
had a full view of train 214
approximately three seconds after the
Train 112 operator has a full view of
the stop train she applies emergency
braking braking action was normal but
there was only enough time to slow the
train a few miles per hour
you